docs: init doc v2 (#6789)
ovh/cds: docs/content/docs/concepts/cds_as_code/rbac/_index.md

---
title: "Permission"
weight: 1
card:
  name: cds_as_code
  weight: 1
---

# Description

> We introduce a new permission system using Role-based Access Control (RBAC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CDS permissions system uses a Role-based Access Control (RBAC).
```

You will be able to manage all CDS resources, included ascode resources. 

> For example, if a user update you workflow files on your repository but he doesn't have the permission to do that, his changes will be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if a user updates your workflow files on your repository but does'nt have permission to do so, his changes will be discarded.
```

You can manage permissions on all CDS resources through 5 sections:

* [`global`](./global/)
* [`hatcheries`](./hatchery/)
* [`regions`](./region/)
* [`workflows`](./workflow/)
* [`projects`](./project/)

# CLI

Permissions can be managed by [CDS cli]({{< relref "/docs/components/cdsctl/experimental/rbac" >}}).

# Permission

> You need the permission `manage-permission` to be able to created/update/delete an permission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need the permission `manage-permission` to be able to created/update/delete a permission
```
